                       GAF77 Library Version 5.0

                          by Gordon A. Fenton

The GAF77 library is a set of math and utility routines written over the last
several years. They are to be taken in an "as-is" condition, that is the
author accepts no responsibility for their use (or misuse).  I am reasonably
confident that the math routines are error-free (beyond round-off errors).
Some of the routines, such as choll.f and facld.f are relatively simple and do
not have as nice round-off error properties as do those available through
linpack, eispack, etc -- so they probably shouldn't be used on nearly singular
or otherwise pathological matrices. This library also includes
a variety of routines to produce realizations of Gaussian 1, 2,
and 3 dimensional random fields. In particular the FFT, Turning Bands Method
(TBM), and Local Average Subdivision (LAS) methods are implemented here in
the form of Fortran 77 subroutines. Users should print and read the
PostScript file "RFGEN.ps" for a comparison of these three methods.

If installed, all the modules here have man page descriptions. See also
Summary.doc for a brief description of each module.

Any comments, bug reports, corrections, or additions can be sent to

     gordon.fenton@dal.ca (http://www.engmath.dal.ca)

I cannot guarantee particularly swift response times but I'll do what I can.
If you want to add something to the library, I would appreciate it if you
could follow the format I use for the comments at the beginning of each
module since I use this to automatically generate man pages (cat format)
for each module. In particular you should preserve the PURPOSE line.

To make and install this library, edit the Makefile to ensure that LIBDIR
points to the directory where libGAF77.a is to be installed, then

   1) type `make'

NOTE: there are a number of system specific calls implemented in these
      routines. These work fine for Sun's f77 V1.4 Fortran Compiler and DEC's
      OSF/1 F77 V3.32 Compiler, but need to be reworked for other platforms
      (such as HP). Linux needs some additional routines, namely etime, fdate,
      getlog, and getpid.
      In particular, the following modules contain system specific calls:

	1) second.f - calls the function etime(.) to return elapsed time
		      since the start of execution. It can also return wall
                      clock time.

        2) argfn.f, argfp.f, argin.f, argop.f, and openfl.f
                    - call the routine getarg(i,str) to return the i'th
                      command line argument in the character string "str".
                      i = 0 for the executing program name itself, i = 1 for
                      the first argument etc.

        3) dlspx?.f - these employ the double precision error function derf()
                      assumed to be resident in the compiler's math library.

        4) iseed.f  - uses the function getpid() to generate a relatively
                      unique integer for the run. Any function which does
                      this is acceptable (avoid 0).

In general, the best way to implement this library on machines that do not
support identically the above commands is to include these modules in
a library which translate what is expected to what is actually offered
(see second.f for an example).

Where possible, other non-standard Fortran 77 extensions have been avoided.
Let me know if you discover any.

